# Funder name disambiguation

This is the repository for our funder name disambiguation project 

## Title

Building A Multi-Lingual, Multi-Functional Model for Funder Name Disambiguation: An Application to Biodiversity Conservation Publications from the Web of Science

## Abstract
Examining the historical allocation of funds in scientific research is essential for informed future funding distribution. However, a major challenge is the lack of comprehensive disambiguation of funder names, encompassing spelling variations, translations, abbreviations, and differenet levels of granularity. While author name disambiguation is a well-established research field, funder name disambiguation remains a challenge. This paper presents a framework to build a multi-lingual, multi-functional model for funder name disambiguation and an application to the domain of biodiversity conservation. We developed a training dataset to fine-tune a pre-trained Sentence Transformer model, leveraging the Research Organization Registry (ROR), which assigns unique identifiers to research organizations, along with two publication datasets: the Web of Science (WoS) and the Crossref Open Funder Registry (OFR). We incorporated Contrastive Loss and Multiple Negatives Ranking Loss functions for both funder name classification and matching. Our model's classification capability identified whether funders are indexed in ROR. Among the funders with unique funder IDs documented in the ROR data, our model achieves an accuracy rate of 0.98 for names occurring in ROR and over 0.91 for names occurring in WoS. This performance exceeds ChatGPT's disambiguation accuracy by more than 0.1. For funders not indexed in ROR, we built a similarity network using similarity scores generated by our model and detected clusters of these funder names. Finally, we identified identified the challenges in funder disambiguation based on our disambiguation results, including the lack of comprehensive records from non-English-speaking countries and smaller organizations. Our work primarily contributes to the development of a reusable framework for funder name disambiguation in publication datasets. This includes the creation of training data (without the need for costly human annotation), multi-task model fine-tuning, and the versatile application of the model for funder name disambiguation.

## Code

Fine_tuning.py is the code for model fine_tuning. Please see the notes in the script.

## Model

You can see the huggingface version of model [here](https://huggingface.co/Kanyao/funder_dis_v1).

## Model Use

This model is compatible with the sentence_transformers package.

For example, you can use the following code to load the model:

from sentence_transformers import SentenceTransformer

model = SentenceTransformer("Kanyao/funder_dis_v1")

For more details, please read documentations on [Sentence Transformer's official webpages](https://sbert.net/examples/applications/semantic-search/README.html).